['Apr 2, 2020']
['PM Narendra Modi updated the country of India on coronavirus on April 2. Read the full English transcript of his address here.']
['\xa0']
[]
['What is Rev?']
['Rev is the largest, most trusted, fastest, and most accurate provider of ', 'transcription services', ' and ', 'closed captioning & subtitling services', ' in the world.']
['Narendra Modi: (', '00:12', ')', ' [Hindi 00:00:12]. Today marks nine days of the nationwide lockdown against the corona pandemic. The discipline and spirit of service you have displayed during this period is unprecedented. It embodies the true meaning of both. Government administration and the public at large have together made great efforts to manage the situation as best as possible.']
['Narendra Modi: (', '01:08', ')', ' The manner in which you have expressed gratitude to all those fighting against the coronavirus on Sunday, the 22nd of March, has today become an example for all countries. Many are replicating it now. Whether it is the people’s curfew, ringing bells, clapping hands, or clanging plates, they have all made the nation realize its collective strength in these testing times. It has led to the deepening of the belief that the nation can unite as one in the battle against corona. This collective spirit of yours, of the nation, can be seen manifesting itself during these times of lockdown.']
['Narendra Modi: (', '02:55', ')', ' Friends, today, when crores of people of this country are confined to their homes, it will be natural for anyone to question, what can they do just by themselves? Some people may also be worried about how they are going to fight such a big battle on their own. Many will be concerned about how many more days they will have to spend like this. Friends, this is certainly the time of a lockdown, and we most certainly are confined to our own homes. But none of us is alone. The strength of 130 crore Indians is with each one of us. It is the strength of each one of us. It is required for our countrymen from time to time to experience the greatness, majesty, and divinity of this collective strength. In our country, the citizenry is considered a manifestation of God. Therefore, when the nation is fighting such a huge battle, one should from time to time keep experiencing this collective superpower manifesting itself in the form of the people. This experience boosts our morale, gives us direction and clarity, and a common aim, as well as the energy to pursue the same.']
['Narendra Modi: (', '04:52', ')', ' Amidst the darkness of the spread of the corona pandemic, we must continuously progress towards light and hope. We must continuously strive to take those of us most affected, our poor brothers and sisters, from disappointment to hope. We must end the darkness and uncertainty emanating from this crisis by progressing towards light and certainty. We must defeat the deep darkness of the crisis by spreading the glory of light in all four directions.']
['Narendra Modi: (', '06:00', ')', ' That is why this Sunday, on the 5th of April, we must all together challenge the darkness spread by the corona crisis, introducing it to the power of light. On this 5th of April, we must awaken the superpower of 130 crore Indians. We must take the super resolve of 130 crore Indians to even greater heights. On the 5th of April, Sunday, I want nine minutes from all of you at 9:00 p.m. Listen carefully. On the 5th of April at 9:00 p.m., turn off all the lights in your homes. Stand at your doors or in your balconies and light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights, for nine minutes. I repeat, light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights, for nine minutes at 9:00 p.m. on the 5th of April.']
['Narendra Modi: (', '07:55', ')', ' At that time, if you have turned off all the lights of your homes, and each one of us in all directions has lit a diya, we will experience the superpower of light, clearly illuminating the common purpose we are all fighting for. In that light, in that luster, in that radiance, let us resolve in our minds that we are not alone, that no one is alone. 130 crore Indians are committed through a common resolve.']
['Narendra Modi: (', '08:46', ')', ' I have one more prayer in this regard, that no one must assemble or gather anywhere while participating in this program. Please do not go out onto the roads, lanes, or in your localities. Do it at the doorstep or balconies of your own homes. One must never cross the Lakshman Rekha of social distancing. Social distancing should not be breached under any circumstances. This is the only panacea to break the chain of coronavirus.']
['Narendra Modi: (', '09:49', ')', ' So, on the 5th of April at 9:00 p.m., sit in solitude for some time and reminisce about Maa Bharti. Picture the faces of 130 crore Indians. Experience the collective resolve, the collective superpower of 130 crore Indians. This will give you the strength to fight, as well as the confidence to win in this hour of crisis. It’s been said.']
['Narendra Modi: (', '10:43', ')', ' Let us come together and jointly defeat this coronavirus, and make India victorious. Thank you very much.']
["Our public transcript archive is always growing, always free, and always here as a research tool for the public to explore. If you don't see an existing transcript of the event you're looking for, please upload or link to the audio you want to see in our library. We'll email you when it's done!"]
['Offer valid for new customers only. One coupon per person or business.\u2028 Can be used for ', 'closed captions', ', ', 'subtitles', ', ', 'foreign subtitles', ', ', 'translations', ' or ', 'transcription', ' services.']
