['Mar 27, 2020']
['British Prime Minister Boris Johnson released a phone video message announcing he has tested positive for COVID-19. Read the full transcript of his video and watch the video with our interactive transcript ', 'here', '.']
['\xa0']
[]
['Boris Johnson: (', '00:01', ')', ' Hi folks, I want to bring you up to speed with something that’s happening today, which is that I’ve developed mild symptoms of the coronavirus, that’s to say a temperature and a persistent cough. On the advice of the Chief Medical Officer, I’ve taken a test. That has come out positive. So, I am working from home. I’m self-isolating, and that’s entirely the right thing to do. But, be in no doubt that I can continue, thanks to the wizardry of modern technology, to communicate with all my top team to lead the national fightback against coronavirus. I want to thank everybody who’s involved. I want to thank, of course, above all our amazing NHS staff. It was very moving last night to join in that national clap for the NHS.']
['Boris Johnson: (', '00:51', ')', ' But it’s not just the NHS. It’s police, social care workers, teachers, everybody who works in schools, DWP staff. An amazing national effort by the public services but also by every member of the British public who’s volunteering. Incredible response. 600,000 people have volunteered to take part in a great national effort to protect people from the consequences of coronavirus. I want to thank you. I want to thank everybody who’s working to keep our country going through this epidemic. And we will get through it. And the way we’re going to get through it is, of course, by applying the measures that you’ll have heard so much about. The more effectively we all comply with those measures, the faster our country will come through this epidemic and the faster we’ll bounce back.']
['Boris Johnson: (', '01:51', ')', ' So, thank you to everybody who’s doing what I’m doing, working from home, to stop the spread of the virus from household to household. That’s the way we’re going to win. We’re going to beat it and we’re going to beat it together. Stay at home. Protect the NHS. And save lives.']
["Our public transcript archive is always growing, always free, and always here as a research tool for the public to explore. If you don't see an existing transcript of the event you're looking for, please upload or link to the audio you want to see in our library. We'll email you when it's done!"]
['Offer valid for new customers only. One coupon per person or business.\u2028 Can be used for ', 'closed captions', ', ', 'subtitles', ', ', 'foreign subtitles', ', ', 'translations', ' or ', 'transcription', ' services.']
